---
title: "Session Domain Driven Design Mercredi 11 Septembre 2019"
date: 2019-09-11T10:38:45+02:00
tags: ["DDD", "unconf"]
aliases: [/posts/ddd-11-09-2019/]
---

Format :

- Forum ouvert

34 participants (avec Greg et Adam)

## What is a bounded context?

Is it the same to speak Canadian in France or in Canada? When a word
ain't the same for different people, they don't need the same software
to be built. Domain models belong in a context, we solve the problem in
a bounded context. It removes complexity. When adding a new concept that
encompass all bounded context will create a new system. It's a tool to
understand the boudaries in a company.

## CQRS, Event sourcing, event modeling?

Some people found messaging systems superior. They would find writing
timeline for events and tracking states. EventStorming is the process
of gathering a lot of people to understand pain points and explore the
problem space. Event modeling is a blueprint of the model, it allows to
layout the timeline of states. It's a guidance for day 2+.

Event modeling allows to flatten the complexity of your system, so that
simple tasks can remain simple when the system grow. Blueprint of the
timeline is the only way to do that (for Adam).

Some team do not know how to collaborate. Blueprint allow people to
understand and agree on who should do.

## How often having more than 2 databases?

More than never, you have more than 2 databases. CQRS is great because
it fits in a lot of model types, but not at indexing text.

## REST & DDD

`Eventsource` has a restful api, so it's possible to create one. It's
really unrelated subjects.

When people asked to read the DDD blue books, how long would it take
for all of them to become DDD compliant. At least a year with good
effort. Event modeling is a tool to accelerate the learning process.

Tracking use cases with event is efficient. You can remove branches of
code that no one uses is a great tool.

## When is CQRS a good fit

It's a hard question. We're not programing, we're building
information system. The best way to represent information changes
in a system is a immutable ledger of events. Information stays the
same with time, requirement changes. There's a blog post for it on
[eventmodeling.org](eventmodeling.org). Doctors have a immutable ledger
with multiple read models (doctor, secretary, etc.).

It is not a technical problem, it's inherent to information systems.

Note: organizers of the meetup are mostly standing up, just as the
speakers!
